Restore help content hidden by stale rpk description overrides (#1862)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/deploy/deployment-option/cloud/managed-connectors/monitor-connectors.mdx

---
title: Monitor Connectors
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Connectors monitoring | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Monitor the health of your Redpanda Managed Connectors using managed connector metrics."/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/deploy/deployment-option/cloud/managed-connectors/monitor-connectors/" />
</head>

You can monitor the health of your Redpanda managed connectors with metrics that Redpanda exports through a Prometheus HTTPS endpoint. You can use Grafana to visualize the metrics and set up alerts.

## Limitations

The connectors dashboard renders metrics that are exported by managed connectors.
However, when a connector does not create a task (for example, an empty
topic list), the dashboard will not show metrics for that connector.

## Configure Prometheus

> [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) is an open-source system monitoring (also
> referred to as _telemetry_) and alerting tool that collects and stores metrics as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) is an open-source system monitoring and alerting tool that collects and stores metrics as
```

described below.
:::

To configure and use Prometheus to monitor Redpanda managed connector metrics:

1. In Redpanda Cloud, go to **Overview > How to connect > Prometheus**. Click the
   Copy icon for **Prometheus YAML** to copy its content into your clipboard.

1. Edit the `prometheus.yml` file in the Prometheus root folder to add the
   Redpanda configuration under `scrape_configs`.

   ```yaml
    scrape_configs:
    - job_name: redpandaCloud
      static_configs:
        - targets:
            - ...
      metrics_path: /api/cloud/prometheus/public_metrics
      basic_auth:
        username: prometheus
        password: ...
      scheme: https
   ```

1. Save the configuration file, and restart Prometheus to apply changes.

1. Observe in Prometheus that metrics from Redpanda endpoints are scraped.

## Import the Grafana dashboard

You can use [Grafana](https://grafana.com/oss/grafana/) to query, visualize, and
generate alerts for metrics. Redpanda provides a
[Grafana dashboard for connectors](https://github.com/redpanda-data/observability/blob/main/grafana-dashboards/Connectors.json).

> To create and use the Grafana dashboard to monitor your managed connectors, import the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create and use the Grafana dashboard to gather telemetry for your managed connectors, import the
```

---
title: Monitor Connectors
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Connectors monitoring | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Monitor the health of your Redpanda Managed Connectors using managed connector metrics."/>
    <link rel="canonical" href="https://docs.redpanda.com/docs/deploy/deployment-option/cloud/managed-connectors/monitor-connectors/" />
</head>

> You can monitor the health of your Redpanda managed connectors using managed
> connector metrics, which Redpanda exports through a Prometheus HTTPS endpoint.
> You can use Prometheus and Grafana to visualize the metrics and set up alerts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can monitor the health of your Redpanda managed connectors with metrics that Redpanda exports through a Prometheus HTTPS endpoint. You can use Grafana to visualize the metrics and set up alerts.
```

## Limitations

The connectors dashboard renders metrics that are exported by managed connectors.
However, when a connector does not create a task (for example, an empty
topic list), the dashboard will not show metrics for that connector.

## Configure Prometheus

[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) is an open-source system monitoring (also

> referred to as _telemetry_) and alerting tool that collects and stores metrics as

Reviewer 2: Guessing this note about telemetry was added because of our SEO findings, but I don't think it reads well here. Suggest removing it from the middle of this sentence and putting it somewhere else on the page.

time-series data identified by a metric name and key/value pairs.

:::note

> You can quickly get [Prometheus and Grafana running locally](https://github.com/redpanda-data/observability/tree/main/cloud);
> however, not for production instances. For productions instances, proceed with
> the deployment of Prometheus and Grafana as a standalone or managed service, as
> described below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can quickly get [Prometheus and Grafana running locally](https://github.com/redpanda-data/observability/tree/main/cloud), but not for production instances. For production instances, deploy Prometheus and Grafana as a standalone or managed service, as
described below.
```

:::

To configure and use Prometheus to monitor Redpanda managed connector metrics:

1. In Redpanda Cloud, go to **Overview > How to connect > Prometheus**. Click the
   Copy icon for **Prometheus YAML** to copy its content into your clipboard.

1. Edit the `prometheus.yml` file in the Prometheus root folder to add the
   Redpanda configuration under `scrape_configs`.

   ```yaml
    scrape_configs:
    - job_name: redpandaCloud
      static_configs:
        - targets:
            - ...
      metrics_path: /api/cloud/prometheus/public_metrics
      basic_auth:
        username: prometheus
        password: ...
      scheme: https
   ```

1. Save the configuration file, and restart Prometheus to apply changes.

1. Observe in Prometheus that metrics from Redpanda endpoints are scraped.

## Import the Grafana dashboard

You can use [Grafana](https://grafana.com/oss/grafana/) to query, visualize, and

> generate alerts for metrics.
> 
> Redpanda provides a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
generate alerts for metrics. Redpanda provides a
```

[Grafana dashboard for connectors](https://github.com/redpanda-data/observability/blob/main/grafana-dashboards/Connectors.json).

To create and use the Grafana dashboard to monitor your managed connectors, import the
connectors dashboard JSON file (`Connectors.json`).

## Managed connector metrics

> You can monitor the following metrics for your Redpanda managed connectors using
> Prometheus and the Grafana dashboard that you configured.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can monitor the following metrics for your Redpanda managed connectors.
```

#### Connector tasks

Number of tasks for a specific connector, grouped by status:

> - `running` - tasks that are healthy and running
> - `paused` - tasks that were paused by a user request
> - `failed` - tasks that failed during execution

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `running` - Tasks that are healthy and running.
- `paused` - Tasks that were paused by a user request.
- `failed` - Tasks that failed during execution.
```

Expect only `running` and `paused` tasks. Create an alert for failed tasks.

---

#### Sink connector lag

> The number of records still to be processed by a connector. Emitted for sink
> connectors only (`last_offset` - `current_offset`).
> 
> For newly-created connectors the metric is high until the connector sinks all

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The number of records still to be processed by a connector. This metric is emitted for sink
connectors only (`last_offset` - `current_offset`).

For newly-created connectors, the metric is high until the connector sinks all
```

historical data.

Expect the lag not to increase over time.

---

#### MM2 replication latency

Age of the last record written to the target cluster by the MirrorMaker 2

> connector. This metric is emitted per partition.
> 
> For newly-created connectors the metric is high until the connector processes all

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
connector. This metric is emitted for each partition.

For newly-created connectors, the metric is high until the connector processes all
```

historical data.

Expect the latency to not increase over time.

---

#### Count of the records sent to target (by topic)

> Count of records sent to the cluster by source connectors, per topic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Count of records sent to the cluster by source connectors for each topic.
```

---

#### Redpanda consumer latency

The Redpanda consumer fetch latency for sink connectors.

---

#### Redpanda producer latency

The Redpanda producer request latency for source connectors.

---

#### Bytes in

Bytes per second (throughput) of data from Redpanda to managed connectors.

---

#### Bytes out

Bytes per second (throughput) of data from managed connectors to Redpanda.

---

#### Record error rate

> - `record errors` - total number of record errors seen in connector tasks
> - `record failures` - total number of record failures seen in connector tasks
> - `record skipped` - total number of records skipped by connector tasks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `record errors` - Total number of record errors seen in connector tasks.
- `record failures` - Total number of record failures seen in connector tasks.
- `record skipped` - Total number of records skipped by connector tasks.
```

---

#### Producer record rate

> - `record sent` - total number of records sent by connector producers
> - `record retry` - total number of records sent retries by connector producers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `record sent` - Total number of records sent by connector producers.
- `record retry` - Total number of records sent retries by connector producers.
```
